Armor

Adamantine: grants damage reduction based on armor category. DMG
Arandur: grants sonic resistance. MoF
Astral Driftmetal: effective against incorporeal attacks as if made of force, only a breastplate, shield, or heavy armor can be made from this material. PH
Aurorum: restores itself if sundered. BoED
Blended Quartz: reduces ASF. A&EG
Blueice: reduces armor category, ACP, and ASF (for cold spells) and increases MDB. FB
Bronzewood reduces weight, doesn't affect hide in woodlands. A&EG
Camoflauge Dye: grants a hide bonus (only with specific light armors). RoF
Chitin: replaces metal, increases MDB. RotD
Copper, Alchemical: grants cold resistance. MoF
Cyrite (Arcane Steel): grants a +1 resistance bonus to saves. PGtE
Darkleaf, Elven: reduces ASF, ACP, armor category and increases MDB. A&EG
Darksteel: grants acid resistance. MoF
Darkwood (Zalantar): reduces weight and ACP (shields only). DMG
Dlarun: grants fire resistance. MoF
Dragoncraft Armor/Shield: grants energy resistance 5 against the respective dragon as an extraordinary ability. Reduces armor category and ACP, only available for certain armor types. Draco
Dragonhide: replaces metal to craft most armors. Immune to the breath weapon of the respective dragon species (armor only). DMG/Draco
Dragonhide Mantle: grants energy resistance as dragoncraft armor, but uses the shoulder body slot. Draco
Duskwood: breastplate only; reduces armor category, ASF and ACP, increases MDB. MoF
Elukian Clay: increases ACP, does not apply ACP to swim. A&EG
Entropium: increases armor category and Str ACP, reduces Dex ACP, ASF and increase MDB. A&EG
Fever Iron: grants fire resistance. MoF
Flametouched Iron: grants a saving throw bonus vs. evil outsider spells, SL and supernatural abilities. ECS
Glassteel: reduces armor category, ACP and ASF, increases MDB. RoF
Gold, Alchemical: grants fire and acid resistance, increases armor category, ACP and ASF, decreases MDB. MoF
Leafweave, Elven: reduces ASF and ACP, increases MDB, cannot replace metal armors. A&EG
Living Metal: reduces ACP and ASF, increases MDB. MoF
Mithral: reduces armor category, ACP and ASF, raises MDB. DMG
Mournlode, Purple: resistance bonus vs. the spells, SL and supernatural abilities of undead. MoE
Platinum, Alchemical: grants cold and sonic resistance, increases armor category, ACP and ASF, decreases MDB. MoF
Riverine: half the armor bonus becomes deflection (see misc. for more properties). SW
Sentira: replicates mithral, required to craft emotional armor (emotional armor has some pretty decent bonuses. All three are published in the same book: Calming, Dreadful, and Vengeful). SoS
Shadowsilk: can only be used to make certain light armors, grants a bonus to hide/move silently, increases MDB, reduces ACP and ASF (in shadows/darkness). ToM
Starmetal: replicates adamantine. CAr
Susalian Chainweave: grants damage reduction /piercing. CM
Thistledown: used for padded armor, provides a bonus to hide checks in shadowy/dark areas. RotW
Urdrukar(mindsteel): increases the DC vs. scrying on the wearer, doubles ASF. A&EG
Wildwood: reduces the AC bonus, ACP and ASF, increases MDB and has no ACP when used to hide in und ergrowth. Wildwood heals itself if soaked in water or while in sunlight. RotW
Ysgardian Heartwire: increases AC vs. crit comfirms. A&EG


Misc.

Blueice: weighs half as much as metal, maintains a freezing temperature. FB
Bluewood: items weigh half, not effective for weapons. UE
Colored Metal: makes anything your favorite color. RotD
Crystal: replaces metal. EXH
Darkwood (Zalantar): reduces the weight of wooden items by half. DMG
Densewood: increases weight and the break DC of the item. ECS
Dragonshard: grants special abilities, usually crafted to make wondrous items. ECS
Dwarvencraft: increases an items hp, hardness, and break DC (this modifies a material, similar to a template). RoS
Flametouched Iron: increases your effective level for turning. ECS
Livewood: allows the item to be affected by most spells that affect living plants. ECS
Mithral: reduces the weight of an item by half. DMG
Moonblood: sacred bonus to AC. BoED
Mournlode, Purple: damages undead when used as a holy symbol for turning. MoE
Obdurium: Hardness 30, HP 60 per inch. SBG
Riverine: invulnerable to physical damage, susceptible to certain dispelling effects. SW
Soarwood: increases the speed of a boat or ship. ECS
Storm Tears: replicates the spell heart's ease. [color=Navy]BoED[/color]
Targath: saving throw bonus vs. disease. ECS 


Weaponry

Abyssal Bloodiron: replicates cold iron, bonus to confirm crits. PH
Adamantine: bypasses /adamantine damage reduction, ignores hardness 20 and below when used to sunder items. DMG
Aurorum: restores itself if sundered. BoED
Baatorian Green Steel: enhancement bonus to damage. A&EG
Blueice: Slashing weapons deal bonus damage. FB
Bronzewood: reduces weight. A&EG
Byeshk: deals bonus damage with bludgeoning weapons, bypasses the damage reduction of daelkyr. ECS
Calomal: overcomes the damage reduction of creatures with the fire subtype. MoE
Crystal, Deep: deals bonus damage by channeling power points. EXH
Cyrite (Arcane Steel): bypasses /magic damage reduction PGtE
Darksteel: deals bonus electricity damage. MoF
Dlarun: deals bonus frost damage. MoF
Dragonbone Bow: increases the range by 20' and makes the bow composite. Draco
Dragonfang: grants an enhancement bonus to attacks and energy damage of the respective dragon as an extraordinary ability. Draco
Duskwood: steel weapons weigh half as much. MoF
Fever Iron: deals bonus fire damage. MoF
Flametouched Iron: weapon is considered good-aligned. ECS
Frystalline: weapon is considered good-aligned. BoED
Gehennan Moghuth-Iron: penalty to attack and damage, but naturally poisonous. A&EG
Glassteel: makes hidden weapons harder to spot. RoF
Gold, Alchemical: increases the damage dice of a weapon.* MoF
Hizagkuur: deals bonus electricity damage. MoF
Iron, Cold: bypasses /cold iron damage reduction. DMG
Kheferu: bypasses the damage reduction of creatures with the earth subtype. SS
Mournlode, Purple: overcomes undead damage reduction as silver or cold iron. MoE
Pandemonic Silver:replicates silver, creates a 30 ft. aura of fear when unsheathed in windy conditions. CW
Pearlsteel: reduces the penalties of using a weapon underwater. SW
Platinum, Alchemical: increases the damage dice of a weapon.* MoF
Riedran Crysteel: deals bonus damage to psionic creatures. ECS
Rimefire Ice: deals bonus cold damage. FB
Silver, Alchemical: bypasses /silver damage reduction, reduces weapon damage. DMG 
Serren: adds the ghost touched property. BoED
Solarian Truesteel: bonus to confirm crits. BoED
Starmetal: replicates adamantine, but deals extra damage to extraplanar creatures. CAr
Stygian Ice: chance to break when dealing damage, deals bonus cold damage and chance to deal WIS damage on hit. FB
Targath: overcomes the damage reduction of Aerenal deathless, reduces attack and damage. ECS
Thinaun: absorbs the souls of those who die while touching the weapon, and prevents their resurrection unless the caster has the weapon at hand. CW

*these materials make a weapon "heavy" and require exotic weapon proficiency to wield.


Other stuff:

Gems

You can enhance a wand's ability if you place a gem inside it at creation. You can only use one gem at a time, and they do one of two things:
1. raise the DC of the spells charged, or
2. raise your ECL if it does not have a DC.
Many gems have a similar effect; this is because some do their job more efficiently. Fire opal > Jacinth, for example.

Amaratha: increases CL for energy resist spells
Beljuril: electricity descriptors
Black Opal: force descriptors
Black Sapphire: darkness descriptors
Diamond: increases CL for healing spells 
Emerald: enchantments
Fire Opal: fire descriptors
Jacinth: fire descriptors
Jasmal: increases CL for spells that provide enhancements to armaments
King's Tear: divinations
Moonbar: conjuration (calling) spells
Opal: enchantment (charm) spells
Orblen: conjuration (creation) spells
Orl: chaotic descriptors and spells that provide luck bonuses
Ravenar: sonic descriptor
Red Tear: transmutation
Rogue Stone: teleportation and chaotic
Ruby: evocation
Sapphire: conjuraton (summoning)
Star Ruby: illusion
Star Sapphire: abjuration
Tomb Jade: enchantment (compulsion)
Water Opal: divination
Zendalure: necromancy

All gems are published in Magic of Faerun (MoF) 


Templates

Not really special materials, but they give special abilities that are very similar, so I think they're worth listing. This is not a summary of how templates work, but a brief explanation of their respective special abilities.

Feycraft:
Armor: reduces weight and ASF, grants a bonus to bluff checks.
Weapon: reduces weight and size category.
Fireshaped:
Armor: bonus to saves vs. fire and heat effects.
Weapon: deals bonus damage to creatures with the cold subtype.
Githcraft:
Armor: reduces ASF, grants a bonus to concentration checks.
Weapon: deals bonus damage to psionic creatures.
Gloryborn:
Armor: bonus to AC when charging.
Weapon: bonus to damage when charging.
Hellforged:
Armor: increases ACP and ASF, reduces MDB, grants bonus AC while adjacent to an ally.
Weapon: deals bonus damage to targets that are flanked.
Pitspawned:
Armor: deals damage to melee attackers.
Weapon: bonus to confirm crits.
Soulforged:
Armor: bonus to resist bullrushes or trip attempts.
Weapon: bonus damage against a charging foe.

All templates are published in Dungeon Master's Guide II (DMG II), except:

Dwarvencraft: increases an items hp, hardness, and break DC (this modifies a material, similar to a template). RoS


Legend, Key, and Disclaimers

A&EG - Arms and Equipment Guide
BoED - Book of Exalted Deeds
CAr - Complete Arcane
CW - Complete Warrior
DMG - Dungeon Master's Guide
DMGII - Dungeon Master's Guide II 
Draco - Draconomicon
ECS - Eberron Campaign Setting 
EXH - Expanded Psionics Handbook
FB - Frostburn
MoE - Magic of Eberron
MoF - Magic of Faerun 
PGtE - Player's Guide to Eberron
PH - Planar Handbook
RoF - Races of Faerun 
RoS - Races of Stone 
RotD - Races of the Dragon 
RotW - Races of the Wild
SoS - Secrets of Sarlona 
SBG - Stronghold Builder's Guide
SS - Sandstorm
SW - Stormwrack
ToM - Tome of Magic
UE - Unapproachable East

ACP - armor check penalty
ASF - arcane spell failure
MDB - maximum dexterity bonus

Disclaimer: I didn't bother to look at hp and hardness changes, nor weight (unless this seemed to be the defining attribute of a material). You can guess for most stuff ...glassteel definitely isn't as hard as real steel. Neither is wood in most cases. If something is made lighter, its probably weaker!

This is just a compilation to get an idea of what a material's special abilities are and see if it looks worth checking out.

If you find any errors, oversights, or know of other materials from different books, please let me know.